welcome to the 1-minute apollomon an
apologist apologetic seeks to give
credible answers to curious question to
give a defense how to study the Bible
observations I had the privilege and I
was a Dallas Theological Seminary to
study under the late prof. Hendrix in
fact he is famous for his Bible study
methods class that I had the opportunity
to take improv Hendricks had this to say
he said the difference between a good
Bible student and a bad Bible student is
simple the good Bible student simply
sees more what was he getting at he was
getting at the powers of observation
when it comes to studying the Bible in
fact the students we had an observation
exercise with acts 1:8 prof had us go
home and make 25 observations on acts
1:8 the verse that says but you will
receive power when the Holy Spirit comes
upon you and you will be my witnesses in
Jerusalem Judea Samaria and the ends of
the earth we went home as students and
we made the different observations and
we came back and we turned in our
project and he said ok now I want you to
go home and make 25 more observations on
that one verse when all was said and
done we had made 50 observations on one
verse what was he doing he was trying to
teach us the powers of observation I put
together an acrostic called observations
that can help you learn how to make good
observations when it comes to studying
the Bible it goes like this the O stands
for observe prayerfully the B stands for
begin by seeing the big picture that is
to say read over the whole chapter or
read over the whole book the S stands
for select key words look for words that
are emphasized the e stands for explore
for commands to follow the R stands for
record any warnings given the V stands
for venture to find promises proclaimed
the a stands for ask and answer
questions in the text the T stands for
target the key places and people the I
stands for inspect for contrasts and
comparisons that you see in the passage
before you the o stands for overview
your discoveries in light of the context
the in stands for no words that are
repeated and emphasized in the S stands
for select the style of literature all
of these observations will allow you to
move toward the next step in studying
the Bible which is interpretation and
we'll come to that in our next episode
you